Yet another important 3D medical imaging concept is called registration.
Registration refers to the process of aligning images up together in 3D space.
Sometimes this needs to be performed when you have two volumes that have been acquired
by different modalities or by the same modality but the different points of time.
Such task, for example,
may come up with if a physician wants to compare
the internal anatomy before and after surgery.
Registration is essentially the process of shifting all voxels from one image,
also called moving image, to another one,
also called fixed image,
so that some constraints are fulfilled.
Thus, rigid registration, for example,
refers to transformation where only rotation
and translation is applied to the entire volume.
Such procedure retains absolute dimensions of the moving image,
but not orientation or position.
Affine registration allow scaling and addition to transformation and rotation.
With a fine registration,
straight lines of the moving image remains straight what sizes are no longer preserved.
Deformability registration refers to the process of applying
transform to each single point of the moving volume individually.
In this example, we're looking at CT and MRI scans of the brain.
Sometimes it's important to superimpose one on top of the other.
For example, with this two images,
in keys of radiation therapy or the calculation of
estimators radiation dose needs to be performed on a CT scan.
MRI Scan is used to get
a much better contrast resolution and have more accuracy in targeting the radiation beam.
So overlaying one on top of the other
allows the physicians to perform procedures more precisely.
In this case, a deformable registration process may be
used to map the MRI image on top of the CT image.
This concludes our section on common 3D imaging tasks
and you are invited to do a little exercise before a lesson comes to a close.